# Student Report and Video Presentation

Get video [here](https://youtu.be/qADf29Z4CYM)

This is my task manager for Linux. I worked on it a small bit at a time. First obstacle was listing all the processes running. That's where I needed to make sure the Linux libraries were working since I had to directly tap into those to access all the PIDs with the system directories. I also knew I wanted to first have a command line GUI, so I didn't want all the code to be in the same file for automation purposes. Anyway, after figuring out having the command line listing of the PIDs, I needed to add the interactivity with the terminate command to close out a specific PID that was typed. This required the kill command that was in the Linux signal library. Originally, I had the command line interactivity be you would type terminate in the command line and then it would ask for the PID and let you know if it closed correctly or if it even existed. After that, I wanted to add IPC with POSIX message queuing to check on the status of a PID. This required sending a message to the system to check if that specific PID was running, and if it wasn't, then it printed out that it was terminated. And if it was running, the command line stated it was running. This is used with the struct Message in my list.cpp file and the monitorProcess function lets the PID check its status. My first test of this code wasn't working as intended since it said PID 1 was terminated when that needed to be running for Ubuntu to even work. So I had to figure out an alternative way of sending and receiving messages through the stdio.h library of commands. After the command line GUI was all done, I wanted to challenge myself with something new which was making a window GUI. I have never done a non-command line GUI so it was a lot of learning, and I found that Qt will work the best for my purposes. This meant I had to scrap a lot of my original code to implement the Qt framework and to avoid any outputs going onto the command line. I definitely had trouble at first figuring out how the user would select the PID they wanted to terminate or check the status of. But I ended up using a text box for the user to type the PID and go from there. Overall, this was a very informative project in learning C++ as well as understanding the Linux OS to create a task manager with process checking and IPC message queuing capabilities. Grace Varga submitted this project and was the only member of this project.